In today's lesson, we're going to
talk about how to navigate man pages.
What the $PATH environment
variable is used for.
What the which command does.
How to ask commands for help.
And how to search for man pages.
When using the man command there
are few key combinations that you
should be aware of.
Enter moves down one line so
every time I hit Enter,
you see the page just
moving down by one line.
If you wanna move down an entire screen or
a page worth at a type hit the space bar.
If you wanna go to the top of
the page you type lower case g.
And to move to the very bottom capital G.
Shift G.
And to quit, you simply type Q.
Environment variables store information.
They're storage locations that
are a name value pair, and
they're typically uppercase.
All the letters in
the variable are uppercase.
And you can see the contents
of the variable
by using the echo $VAR_NAME command.
We'll go into greater detail about
environment variables in a later lesson.
However, the environment variable that
we're most interested in today is path.
Path is an environment variable.
It controls the command search path.
It contains a list of directories
that are separated by a colon.
What I mean by that it controls the
command search path is that, when you type
in a command at the prompt and press
Enter, that command will be searched for
in the directories that are listed
in your path environment variable.
In this example,
user local bin will be searched first.
If the command is found there,
it will be executed.
If it's not found,
then /bin will be searched.
And this process goes on and on until
either the command is found in your path
or if it doesn't match your request,
then you'll be politely told
that it can't be found.
If you want to know the location or
the full path to the command that you're
executing, use the which command.
For instance, you could type which cat.
Now, if there were multiple
programs named cat,
then the one that gets executed
depends on your search path.
If cat is in /bin and
also in /usr local bin, which ever
directory occurs first in your path will
be the cat command that gets executed.
Here's an example of using
which with a tac command.
Tac is cat spelled backwards.
So can you guess what tac does?
That's right, it displays a file's
contents in reverse order.
Putting this altogether you can
start looking at what is in
each directory in your path.
And use the man command to discover what
each and every one of those programs does.
In theory, you could teach yourself
how to use Linux this way.
However, it would be a long tedious
process and not very efficient.
Knowing about the path
environment variable
gives you an idea of where commands
are located on the Linux system.
If you have an idea of something
that you want to do, but
you're not exactly sure
how to go about it,
or which commands to use,
you could start by looking in your path.
Looking in those directories and
see if any one of those
commands may help you out.
And then you can get more details
on exactly how to use that command
with the man command.
Many commands will provide hints for
how to use them at the command line.
Some commands will accept the- -
h flag and others will accept- h.
Some will refuse to give
you any help at all.
In that case,
you would use the main command.
LS will provide some information at
the command line when you specify- -help.
You can get help from gzip
by using- h or-- help.
If you're not sure which command to use,
you can search through the man
pages with man- k SEARCH_TERM.
From there you can read the man page for
the command or ask for
help with- h, or- - help.
In this example if we search for calendar,
we see a couple of programs and
we can just type man and
those program names to determine
which one does what we want to do.
In summary, man is the command you can
use to display the documentation that is
built into the Linux system.
The path environment variable
controls your search path.
It can determine which
command gets executed.
You can learn the full path to a command
with the which command by typing which and
the command you're interested in.
For example, which LS.
You can ask commands for
help by using- - help or- h.
And if you want to search man pages,
use man- k.
Here are some suggested next steps.
Log on to your Linux system.
Take a look at your $PATH
environment variable.
Go through each one of those
directories and perform an LS on it.
For example,
your path may contain /bin:/usr/bin.
So you can type LS /bin or LS /usr/ bin.
You can also change directory to those
directories and then perform an LS there.
For example you could type cd/bin and
hit Enter.
And then you're in the bin directory.
And you can simply type LS.
From there pick some commands
that look interesting to you.
And run man against them,
additionally pick a few commands and
try using- - help and- h on them